# Pear-Integrative-Network
Welcome to the GitHub repository of the Pear Integrative Network project.

This project aims to construct a gene network of pear by integrating multiple omics data to better understand the interactions and relationships in its biological system.

Networks serve as powerful tools for revealing comprehensive landscapes of gene regulation and biological processes. Here, we constructed an integrated network for pear fruit that combines genomic, transcriptomic, 3D genomic, transcription factor (TF) binding, chromatin accessibility, and proteomic data. This network comprises over 46,339 elements interconnected by more than 5.82 million edges. Using network analysis to study the evolutionary fate of duplicated genes reveals duplicated genes have more similar functions compared to non-paralogous and undergo functional divergence as they age. Leveraging this integrated network, we successfully reconstructed trait-related gene networks and known regulatory relationships, validating the network's performance. Additionally, we predicted novel genes associated with sugar metabolism and stone cell lignification in pear fruit, identifying a set of candidate genes. Finally, we developed pearGRN (), an interactive network server hosting various networks generated in this study, providing the community with online tools to explore gene regulation and discover trait-related genes. Overall, this study leverages large-scale omics datasets to uncover new regulatory mechanisms, protein interactions, and trait-related genes, offering new avenues for functional gene research and the improvement of fruit traits in pears.
